[#daily]
2023-08-14
07:10
## logs
- kp.beacon
	- business.M&N
- kp.beacon.portfolio.it
	- ecommerce
		- goal
			- interested in how ecommerce site architecture works (headless cms) -> Wanted to build own order, stock services, only payment depends on Saas like Stripe checkout and webhook. As for data, scrapes websites like pepsico, but the data changes often so set up a cron job push to kafka topics, and consumes in a service that updates data in mongodb
			- try Nextjs with TS also a server-side frameworks -> next api routes with Next auth. Also want to use graphql for CRUD. PostgreSQL for storing users, orders, cart items that have strong relationships and MongoDB for products because query faster. Also a Redis cache layer to query products only (because products don't change much, not have to deal with cache invalidation). For client use Redux for state management and Shadcn styled component library. Also unit test, integration test. Also use docker and attempt at terraform and ansible for setting up AWS EC2 instance.
		- state-now
			- architecture
				- client: Next/TS + Tailwind (shadcn), Redux
				- server: JWT-based Next-Auth, Next api + graphql (zod), prisma/PostgreSQL, mongoose/MongoDB, Redis, Kafka pub/sub service + cron job
				- service: Stripe checkout, webhook
			- pipeline
				- deploy: Vercel, Railway.app, S3
		- state-final
			- architecture
				- client: 
					- [x] Redux
					- [x] Next Ssr  - front page ssg, catalogue ssr, every other page csr
					- [x] cron(demo accounts, doc) 
					- light house (Contentful Paint (LCP), First Input Delay (FID), and Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS) + @vercel/analytics)
			- pipeline
				- test: unit test, integration test
		- Bonus:
			- architecture
				- server: Elastic Search, 
					- migrate to upstash
				- service: Cloudinary
			- pipeline
				- deploy: client to EC2, kafka to EC2
	- dengue-defense
		- goal 
			- refactored from thesis project, interested in building an application integrated with IoT devices to help combat dengue. How pub/sub works and when to use it
			- how trpc and type-safe api work,  Try session based auth. Implement polling to Kafka and save telemetries to time series database. Deploy to Ec2 instance
		- state-now
			- architecture
				- client: Next/TS, Tailwind (shadcn, recharts), Jotai
				- server: Session-based Next-Auth, trpc (zod), prisma/PostgreSQL + timeseries_, Kafka pub/sub
			- pipeline
				- deploy: Vercel, Supabase
		- state-final
			- architecture
				- client: 
					- [x] Next ssr
					- [x] cron (doc)
					- light house
			- pipeline
				- test: unit test, integration test
				- deploy: docker? bring whole to EC2
	- firmedia
		- goal 
			- interested in how to build a movie site, how server and CRUD work, how auth works with JWT
			- try Vite, full TS, experimenting with state management libs like Jotai, Zustand, deploy to the internet
		- state-now
			- architecture
				- client: React/TS + Vite, Tailwind, Jotai, Zustand
				- server: JWT-based, Express + Restful api (zod), mongoose/MongoDB
			- pipeline
				- deploy: Onrender, Railway.app 
		- state-final
			- architecture
				- client: cron(fix late render, doc)
			- pipeline
				- test: unit test, integration test with Vitest
		- bonus
			- architecture
				- server: S3
			- pipeline
				- deploy: bring to EC2
- kp.professions.it.architecture.CL
- kp.professions.it.architecture
	- physical
		- 
- social


1. Performance. How to make more efficient. Ways in which you can reduce re rendering. The react docs have a great article called “should I use useEffect” I’d suggest you read that
    
2. Making data persistent. This one has come up a couple of times. Interviewers looking for knowledge on cookies, local storage and url parameters.
    
3. Prop drilling and how to avoid it. Look at react composition patterns. Knowledge has gone down well in all of my interviews on this subject.
    
4. Getting data. Depending on the tech stack I’ve had questions on graphql, REST and caching. I’ve been trying to shift the conversation to react query in the interviews as I’ve been using it a lot recently.
    
5. Pipelines. What makes a good pipeline? I’ve been answering with Eslint, test suit (jest and react testing library) and TS build. Seems to have gone down well so far. Some people will be looking for end to end tests but frankly they take to long in a ci/cd pipeline.
    
6. Bundling and distribution. Probably not relevant to what you’re talking about, but read up on rollup js. It’s great for this stuff
    
7. Form validation. This came up on one interview and I just answered react hook form and got full marks for that answer. Learn that package
    
8. Next.js. Every single interview I’ve had recently has had questions about next. Next isn’t even listed in the job descriptions, I’m starting to think it’s just a given at this point that you need to know. Questions I’ve been asked have been around server side props and SSR in general. Learn this stuff.